have you heard banks are gearing up for
something big are you in today's video
we're going to discuss exactly what's
going on and how you can avert this
crisis I think it's important a lot of
people have to understand the truth so
that we can Thrive so that we can
prosper we don't want to be victims of
this and that's what we're going to
discuss today I want to look at what's
going on identify the problem and then
we can provide the solutions to that
number one we're going to look at what's
happening with the banks and with debt
and when we start to piece these things
together it's it's strange let me show
you something
here we have it credit card losses are
rising at the fastest Pace since the
great financial crisis and so yes that
is a problem but we're still off from
where we were back then I'm not
suggesting it is worse in that sense but
know that there's more debt than ever
before and interest rates are absolutely
higher Goldman Sachs predicts credit
card losses will continue to climb
through the end of 2024 early 2025 why
is that because the expectation is the
Federal Reserve will leave interest
rates high for that long we don't know
we don't know what's going to happen but
at this time based on the different you
know they call it the fed s-e-p and all
that means is where the FED predicts
inflation will be in interest rates will
be at that time what is unusual is that
the losses are accelerating outside of
an economic downturn according to
Goldman's acts credit card losses
currently stand at 3.6 3 which is up 1.5
percent from the bottom we have seen
this from others as well I think it's
important just to address a few things
credit card losses bottomed in September
2021 but why it's because everything was
put on hold everything you had the you
know that moratoriums of all kinds you
don't have to pay your rent you don't
have to pay your mortgage you don't have
to pay your student loan you don't have
to pay anything and so people started to
pay off their credit cards because at 22
percent yeah I'm gonna pay that down if
I have the chance but now things are
changing the student loans coming
through you got to pay that now there's
no more moratoriums all of the stimulus
benefits coming through so we know it's
a different very different environment
than where we were a couple years ago so
imagine that imagine the circumstances
of where we were at a couple years ago
how different it is today and so I can
cover that right here you know you got
to understand that defaults have risen
we've got these bankruptcies that are
picking up both individual and on the
corporate side and then with rates
saying hi the problem is intensified so
the longer that stretches on for the
bigger the problem is even if rates
don't go higher if they go longer we go
longer into 2024 into you know beyond
that that's going to be a big issue so
it really all depends on what happens
with inflation what companies do if
prices stay too high of course then
that's going to you know hit the
consumer I've heard from you many cases
where you have said you don't see as
many people going to that particular
restaurant anymore you're look at the I
mean I've seen it I've seen your
comments at the same time I've read
article after article talking about how
you know they're measuring how much tips
that was sent to me by a subscriber
today or yesterday
um you know they're not seeing as many
they've calculated it out and tips
percentages have dropped you know you
just look at all that anecdotal type of
evidence that has been going on over the
last little while and things have
certainly changed meaning the consumer
buying patterns are different okay so
keep that in mind okay then we have this
looking at the losses that are going on
why is this important it's because
you've got a trillion dollars worth of
this stuff that's out there and that you
know that they're not going to be able
to just you know pay off it's not going
to get paid off we know that that's the
fact
in our view this cycle resembles the
characteristics of what it was
experienced in the late 1990s and
somewhat similar to the 2015-2019 cycle
where losses increased following a
period of strong loan growth and has
seen similar pace of normalization thus
for foreign cycle I think that actually
what will happen here is that there will
be a lot more losses and what Springs
out of this will be more inflation how
do they do that well the government will
say we need to help these people out we
need to deal with that as the losses
start to pile up and the banks start to
deal with the crisis which they're
already going through then that
essentially you know how this works the
banks the Central Bank the Federal
Reserve oh they happen to be connected
and they are going to have a discussion
and how they have to be you know they're
too big to fail oh we need a little pay
a lot
that's the way this goes
it won't happen overnight and don't
expect it to be smooth let me tell you
banks are paying up to protect their
cash Holdings from sinking further and
the Safeguard against future runs on
deposits according to Bank of America
big and small institutions started doing
this even before the turmoil in the U.S
banking system in March yeah they know
that they're going to take on some
losses and they are paying to get more
deposits isn't it strange that they are
paying for more deposits in a time in
which they are required to keep zero
reserves there is no requirement they
have zero zero zero reserves right now
if they want to and yet they're putting
more they want more deposits they want
more even though they gotta go give it
out at four percent five percent six
percent a lot of these companies are
starting to offer certificates of
deposit in the US I've seen examples I
believe in the comment section somebody
was saying six percent
you know I've seen the same thing in
Canada looking at this you are having to
give out High percentages well what are
you investing in
these Banks that's making more than that
do you understand if you are a bank and
you got to give somebody six percent
what are you investing in to keep it at
that level you're taking a loss right
now these banks are taking a big loss
there's nothing that they can do to be
able to go higher than that percentage
they have to in a sense because they
want to keep people as customers right
they want to loan to them they want to
do stuff and it's the issue is that it's
going on for so long this isn't a little
blip where yeah okay we'll do this for a
few months it'll all be over we can go
back to normal of giving people Nothing
imagine they got to get five percent six
percent they have to make five percent
six percent beyond that so they're
basically filling in their profit margin
and they're not getting that so the
banks are in big trouble big trouble
they got their own debt problems as
we'll discuss in just a second but now
they have this fundamental issue which
is going to hurt them bad and so I want
to discuss more on that and why I
believe it will lead to job losses some
big concerns are unfolding right now
debt Market Titans see fiscal risks and
Rising defaults some headwinds Loom as
companies refinance at higher rates
um clearly as they say right here
there's a global risk from deficit
spending
my goodness a little late to the party
on that one but here we are
and that's exactly what they've done
over the last while of course all these
governments gone into mass mass debt
credit markets may be stable as the
global economy improves resilient but
some of the titans of that uh that that
world told Bloomberg this week that they
see looming headwinds as the impact of
higher interest rates slowly filters
through the consumers and companies and
that is an absolute matter of fact
high yield companies face looming
maturity wall and that's coming up over
the next few years so essentially they
need to make a lot of money in a
relatively short period of time and yet
the prospects for that are dismal do you
see that these banks are running head
first into a brick wall
and you might say ah who cares about the
banks I'm not invested in Banks or I
don't care let them fail these are the
companies that could take down
everything if that Domino Falls the rest
go with it this is a financial crisis
you know could be magnified from what we
saw back in 2008 because if you remember
the problem was subprime at the core and
then we realized uh oh there's a lot of
counterparty risk you got the insurance
companies you got all these other things
infected by it but imagine when we go
into this on a more fundamental level
just interest rates being too high for
too long
and we can't handle that this is massive
and I can't stress that enough I'm just
trying to tell you exactly how this is
feds Bowman signals that she favors more
than one further rate hike and now we're
talking about more than one of course
why because the inflation rates are too
high for too long they started to come
up and certain indicators and if you
look at the core inflation rates that
they love to use that's bait we've
basically been at this level for well
over a year and it's not necessarily
coming down anytime soon according to
their stats because a lot of these
things are sticky okay and then you have
this case here the National Bank of
Canada better positioned than many of
the larger Rivals the Navigator downturn
that's poised to hit Banks balance sheet
and customers why well a lot of them
were previously purchasing their homes
at a low interest rate and now when it
comes due they have to get it at a
higher interest rate as they say here
this could be in Ontario a 1200 dollar
difference a month do you know because
of variable interest rates
do you know how many people would be
able to withstand an additional twelve
hundred dollars on top of all of their
other expenses that have been going up
like crazy this is wild so the banks are
feeling it the consumers are feeling it
I know you've been feeling it I've been
reading your comments I've been replying
to you I've been communicating on
Discord I've been doing it in the
mentorship group I am talking with
people and we're going to discuss what
you need to do because here is the
problem we are aware of it we know of it
and now we've got to address that we
don't just talk about this stuff leave
that to the other guys the other
YouTubers will do that but on this
channel forevermore we are going to be
focusing on the actions that you need to
take so that you can Thrive and prosper
oil nearing 100 is a red flag for
Central bank's inflation fight crude is
approaching 100 in this new headache for
policy makers volatile volatility
coincides with higher for longer rates
Outlook so this is all connected of
course you can you know look at what's
going on with Saudi Arabia of course
restricting this talked about that in
previous videos If Saudi Arabia is going
to restrict output on their oil
certainly that will reflect in the price
we know this but it's just one component
of many where the prices are rising on
just about everything it seems so oil is
a problem gas transport in general all
of these things so know that that's just
hitting people where it hurts right now
and so that's all part of this what's
next you might ask
AI fantasy Fades as Wall Street reels
from Real World rate jump of course as
soon as you know I as soon as like you
saw Nvidia stock like it was going up up
up up up like a hundred billion dollars
a day it was just flowing towards them
and the valuations I was looking at all
of these individual uh analysts they
were giving these valuations that were
absurd oh the stock is going to be 400
tomorrow the stock is going to be a
thousand tomorrow it's going to be 2
000. it's gonna be ten thousand they
were just giving everything and the
stock kept climbing climbing climbing
but what was it all about it was about
the fact that we are expecting a rate
cut soon from the Federal Reserve and
that there's a never-ending supply of
money that will go into AI stocks and
Nvidia happened to be the one that
positioned themselves as the new AI
Champion you know that
um a lot of the liquidity was starting
to leave like Tesla and things and it
was moving into
um Nvidia and some other companies the
point is we get this when there's
turmoil not when there's you know
Goldilocks when there's turmoil and
that's what's going on right now and we
can see that there is not as much
liquidity as there was before
if you can see that over here then as
the last few days of the S P 500 all red
okay and they're worried for good reason
so what is it in the end that you may
experience well I can tell you that as
we have these layoffs they will be
replaced every single time with robots
if they can this is just a little funny
piece
I thought it was funny this actually
went viral you can see it has 11 million
views with the RoboCop it cannot make
the heart with the mayor because it has
no arms and you can see he's doing the
little heart thing and uh you know
saying hey they're gonna put these out
this is a new security for the NYPD uh
it records video only doesn't record
audio and it's going to go around and
it's going to make the subway safer
anyway the point is all I'm showing this
is because they are putting robots
wherever they can that's all they're
going to do it in the fast food places
where California is saying hey we're
going to charge uh we're gonna pay our
employees 20 bucks an hour
if you're in fast food industry you know
you're gonna get 20 bucks an hour and
that's great in a sense for those people
making 20 bucks an hour but the obvious
truth is these companies won't pay that
and they're going to implement flippy
the robot and all these different robots
there's gonna they're going to a new
model where you walk in you don't talk
to anybody you type it on the screen
um which by the way I've seen the
studies on those touch screens a lot of
feces on there or you're gonna go to
your phone you're gonna tap that in on
your phone you're going to be able to
come there you're going to pick it up
and there is not any human interaction
it might be a human in the back
somewhere working but you won't see them
and that's the way it goes okay and so
if you want to know what you can do well
you let me tell you it came to the right
place okay these are just a few things
and on the end of every episode I Do
cover these things so just understand
this is just a small piece of the total
it is essential to increase your income
at all costs at all costs anything that
you can do to increase your income sell
the stuff around your house sell
services that you have work a second job
get a side hustle in my opinion a side
hustle is much better one that you can
do online and there's many many reasons
for that this is something we talk about
all the time in the mentorship group
every single week invest only in
companies with strong balance sheets so
if you are an investor please be honest
about yourself and what you're putting
your money into look at the ones that
can weather the storm and speaking of
weather the storm real assets real
assets are what can weather the storm
during this period of time and that's
what we need to have more than anything
else if you want to be able to go
through your own finances understand
where you are at you can do that with
compass compass right here is where your
financial Journey starts and it's
totally free all right so you can get
that at my website themoneygps Dot com
the moneygps.com I want you to go over
there get that done for yourself it's
like 20 minutes through the whole thing
super short videos and I want you to be
there and then when you're done give me
that feedback okay it's very important
that I uh create these things for you
because I realize that we all need that
Financial education get that done the
moneygps.com and the comment of the day
I thought this was fantastic fantastic
because it shows that people are
preparing and what I'm gonna do is
highlight in each circumstance comments
number one but also any case study that
I can and this happens to be sort of a
two-in-one here we go thank you very
much the dirty German for your comment
we repainted the living room and needed
a new doorbell cover because the old one
was from the 1970s the doorbell cover
was thirty dollars on Amazon but thing
verse which is what I talked about in
the previous video to this one which is
basically you know you can 3D print
stuff and they give you like the
schematics the diagrams all you got to
do is take that thing that file and
input it into your 3D printer hit a
button and it gives you what you need
free free okay anyway had a better one
which could be 3D printed for about a
dollar fifty this is deflation thirty
dollars to a dollar fifty and that is so
key and it makes me so happy to hear
that that is part of preparation and
these 3D printers are just one small
aspect of it but it is a part and so I
want to thank you for that comment and
I'm going to continue to highlight
people out there through case studies
through comments that are doing these
kind of things to celebrate it and also
to show you that we will Thrive and that
we will prosper in these most difficult
times if you're with me hit that thumbs
up subscribe to the channel
these are the things that we talk about
each but every day so I'll see on the
next one take care